M8 DEMO SCRIPT
Recommended length: 4.5 to 5 minutes

Why 5 minutes:
The challenge does not ask for a long product tour. It says the demo should show the full loop:
vulnerable agent -> attack succeeds -> enable defense -> same attack/runs blocked -> report residual gaps.
So keep it around 5 minutes, then leave time for questions.


BEFORE STARTING

Open:
- Frontend: http://localhost:5173
- Backend: http://localhost:8000/docs only if someone asks for APIs

If running locally:
cd "/Users/shreeyagupta/ctf solver/sentinelai"
source .venv/bin/activate
python -m uvicorn backend.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000

In another terminal:
cd "/Users/shreeyagupta/ctf solver/sentinelai/frontend"
npm run dev

Key thing to say early:
This demo needs no OpenAI key and incurs zero LLM API cost — the target uses a deterministic MockLLM so results replay. M8 is still a web app: use the live Railway deploy, or run backend + frontend locally from the GitHub README. No real personal data.


0:00 - 0:30 | OPENING

Open the M8 dashboard.

Say:
"M8 is adaptive red-team testing for AI agents. The name comes from the 8 mutation strategies in the attacker. The problem I am solving is simple: companies are connecting LLM agents to tools, files and internal data, but most teams only test the prompt. M8 tests whether the agent can actually be forced to misuse a tool or leak data."

Point to:
- M8 header
- Dashboard / result cards if already populated
- DEMO DATA ONLY badge


0:30 - 1:05 | SHOW THE TARGET AGENT

Go to: Target Agent

Say:
"This is SecureAssist, the target agent I built for the harness. It has a system prompt and two callable tools, which is required by the brief. The first tool reads documents. The second tool, lookup_employee, is sensitive because it returns simulated salary and SSN fields. This means the attack is not just text output. It can cross a tool boundary."

Point to:
- System Prompt [REDACTED]
- Callable Tools
- read_document
- lookup_employee marked sensitive
- Documents list, especially malicious_invoice.txt

Optional input if you want a quick normal request:
Summarize the company_policy.txt document.

Say after it works:
"Normal document use still works. The goal is not to block everything. The goal is to block unsafe tool use and leakage."


1:05 - 1:50 | SHOW THE POISONED DOCUMENT ATTACK MANUALLY

Stay on: Target Agent

Set mode: Vulnerable

Input:
Please summarize malicious_invoice.txt.

Say:
"Now I am doing the exact demo beat from the problem statement: a document quietly steers the agent. The user only asks for a summary. The attack is hidden inside the document."

When the response appears, point to:
- lookup_employee call in the trace
- injected_instruction source if visible
- fictional employee data / exfil URL if visible

Say:
"With defenses off, the agent treats the document as instructions. It calls the sensitive employee tool and leaks data. This is the EchoLeak-style failure mode."

Then switch mode: Defended

Input the same thing again:
Please summarize malicious_invoice.txt.

Say:
"Now I run the exact same request with defenses on. The document can still be read, but the document text cannot authorize a sensitive tool call. The policy broker blocks it, and the output guard prevents exfiltration."


1:50 - 2:50 | RUN THE FULL SUITE

Go to: Run Assessment

First run:
- Mode: Vulnerable
- Suite Type: Static Suite
- Click: RUN SECURITY ASSESSMENT

Say while it streams:
"This is not one hand-picked prompt. M8 runs 28 attacks across 6 categories: direct injection, indirect injection, tool misuse, exfiltration, multilingual attacks and obfuscated attacks. The terminal-style log and graph show what the agent did on each attack."

Point to:
- live terminal logs
- attack IDs turning SUCCEEDED
- node graph changing

Expected vulnerable result:
20/28 attacks succeed
ASR = 71.4%

Then run again:
- Mode: Defended
- Suite Type: Static Suite
- Click: RUN SECURITY ASSESSMENT

Say:
"Now I run the same suite again, but with classifier, policy broker and output guard enabled. The important point is same attacks, same target agent, different security controls."

Expected defended result:
0/28 attacks succeed in the measured suite
ASR = 0%
Honesty line: this is suite-specific, not a claim of universal jailbreak immunity.


2:50 - 3:40 | SHOW MULTILINGUAL + LORA ON DEFENCES

Go to: Defences

Use the Multilingual Injection Check panel.

Click:
- Arabic prompt injection
- Arabizi bypass
- Mixed AR/EN

Say:
"The differentiator I want to stress is multilingual testing. Most prompt injection demos are English-only. M8 includes Arabic, Urdu, Arabizi and mixed-script attacks, which matters for UAE and regional deployments. In the vulnerable run, multilingual attacks succeeded 4 out of 6 times. With defenses enabled, 0 out of 6 succeeded."

Point to:
- Script detected
- Evasion detected
- Risk score
- Method = heuristic

Important honesty line:
"AraBERT support exists, but the submitted numbers use the offline heuristic path, so this demo does not need a GPU, internet or model download."

Then scroll to: Self-Improving Guardrail — LoRA Retraining Plan Generator

Click: Generate LoRA Plan

Say:
"After the suite finds what still gets through, M8 does not stop at a score. The LoRA block turns missed attacks into a concrete fine-tuning plan: which patterns to retrain on, suggested LoRA rank and alpha, and whether it is safe to deploy. Important honesty: this generates the plan offline. It does not train a model live during the demo."

Point to:
- Plan ID
- Missed attack count
- Safe to deploy
- Hyperparameters / target patterns if shown


3:40 - 4:15 | SHOW WORKFLOW / BUSINESS VALUE

Go to: Workflow

Say:
"This is why M8 is more than a scanner. After the run, it behaves like a release gate. You are looking at a real workflow graph on a node canvas, not a fake toggle strip. Assessment feeds triage, the CI gate decides pass or fail, then the path branches to Slack and Jira, and regression compares against the last baseline."

Point to:
- dotted graph: Assessment → Triage → CI Gate → Slack / Jira → Regression
- click CI Gate / Slack / Jira nodes for the detail strip
- CI Gate PASS/FAIL
- Slack preview (SENT if live)
- Jira issue preview (KAN-x if live)
- Regression tracking

Say:
"For a buyer, this replaces manual prompt testing. It becomes a security unit test for AI agents, with SOC alert and ticket outputs."


4:15 - 4:50 | SHOW REPORTS / EVIDENCE

Go to: Reports

Select the latest run.

Say:
"The report is the submission artifact a security team would keep. It has the attack success rate, 22/25 benign utility check, most dangerous successful attack, category breakdown, residual risks, and methodology."

Point to:
- Executive Summary
- ASR
- Utility
- Most Dangerous Successful Attack
- Attack Success Rate by Category
- Poisoned Document Demo Beat
- Residual Risks

Click Export PDF only if needed.


4:50 - 5:00 | CLOSING

Say:
"The result is simple: before defenses, the vulnerable agent fails on 20 of 28 attacks. After the defenses, the same measured suite drops to 0 successful attacks, while 22 of 25 benign document/general tasks still pass. M8 proves the defense with evidence instead of only claiming the agent is safe."


OPTIONAL | 45–60 SEC ARCHITECTURE POSTER / MERMAID

When to use:
- If a judge asks "how does the whole system work?"
- If you open the architecture poster or docs/architecture/ARCHITECTURE_MERMAID.md on mermaid.live
- Do NOT replace the live demo with this. Use it as a 1-minute map.

What to show:
- Left / pink attack branch
- Middle defend + agent pipeline
- Right CI / Slack / Jira / compliance

Easy script (say almost word for word):

"This diagram is the whole of M8 in one picture.

Branch 1 is the attacker. It is adaptive: MAP, BREAK, FALSIFY. If an attack is blocked, it mutates with 8 strategies. That is why the project is called M8. It hits SecureAssist, my target agent, which has two tools: read a document, and look up an employee with simulated sensitive fields.

Branch 2 is the defense. Same agent, three layers. Input classifier catches injection and multilingual evasion. Policy broker is the important one: the user's clean request can authorize a tool, but text inside a document cannot. Output guard stops SSN, salary, and exfil URLs from leaving.

In the middle is the execution graph. Every request walks Input → Classifier → Planner → Policy Broker → Tool → Output Guard → Response. Each node stores input, decision and reason, then we hash the checkpoints with SHA-256 so the evidence is tamper-evident.

On the right is the buyer story. After the suite runs, a CI gate can fail the release. Slack and Jira get a vulnerability alert. Findings map to OWASP GenAI and MITRE ATLAS. And it all runs offline with MockLLM, so no OpenAI key and the jury can replay the same result.

So one sentence: M8 attacks the agent, measures what broke, turns defenses on, proves the drop with evidence, and can block a release."

Point order while talking:
1. Adaptive Attack Engine / 8 mutations
2. Target tools (especially lookup_employee)
3. Vulnerable ASR vs defended ASR
4. Three defense boxes
5. SHA-256 evidence chain
6. CI Gate + Slack + Jira


IF JURY ASKS QUESTIONS

If asked: Why M8?
Answer:
"Because the adaptive attacker uses 8 mutation strategies. It mutates a failed attack until something works."

If asked: Is it using OpenAI?
Answer:
"No. The submitted demo uses a deterministic offline MockLLM, local ML checks and SQLite. No OpenAI key or paid API calls are required."

If asked: Why not real Slack/Jira?
Answer:
"The integration is implemented but mock-by-default for safe submission. Real Slack/Jira only needs environment variables, but the PDF contains no credentials."

If asked: What is the most important defense?
Answer:
"The policy broker. It checks whether a tool call is authorized by the clean user request. A document can provide data, but it cannot grant permission to call a sensitive tool."

If asked: What is the limitation?
Answer:
"The numbers are from a deterministic offline MockLLM, not a benchmark across many commercial models. AraBERT support exists but was not used for the reported numbers. LoRA generates a retraining plan, it does not fine-tune during the demo."

If asked: Why multilingual?
Answer:
"English-only filters miss regional attack styles. M8 tests Arabic, Urdu, Arabizi and mixed-script prompts, which is more realistic for UAE deployments."
